---
date: 2021-08-08T11:00:59-04:00
description: D. Zhu, Z. Hu, T. K. Rogers, M. Barnes, C. Tseng, H. Mei, L. M. Sassi, Z. Zhang, M. M. Rahman, P. M. Ajayan, R. Verduzco
featured_image: "/images/pub_10.png"
tags: []
title: "Patterning, Transfer, and Tensile Testing of Covalent Organic Framework Films with Nanoscale Thickness"
link: https://pubs.acs.org/doi/abs/10.1021/acs.chemmater.1c01179
---

Covalent organic frameworks (COFs) are promising materials for a variety of applications, including membrane-based separations, thin-film electronics, and as separators for electrochemical devices. Robust mechanical properties are critical to these applications, but there are no reliable methods for patterning COFs or producing free-standing thin films for direct mechanical testing. Mechanical testing of COFs has only been performed on films supported by a rigid substrate. Here, we present a method for patterning, transferring, and measuring the tensile properties of free-floating nanoscale COF films. We synthesized COF powders by condensation of 1,3,5-tris(4-aminophenyl)benzene (TAPB) and terephthalaldehyde (PDA) and prepared uniform thin films by spin casting from a mixture of trifluoroacetic acid and water. The COF films were then reactivated to recover crystallinity and patterned by plasma etching through a poly(dimethylsiloxane) (PDMS) mask. The films were transferred to the surface of water, and we performed direct tensile tests. We measured a modulus of approximately 1.4 GPa for TAPB-PDA COF and a fracture strain of 2.5%, which is promising for many applications. This work advances the development of COFs for thin-film applications by demonstrating a simple and generally applicable approach to cast, pattern, and transfer COF thin films and to perform direct mechanical analysis.